Why is Big Data generated
by machines useful?
Let's go back for
a second to our first example for
machine generated big data planes.
What is producing all
that data on the plane?
If you look at some of
the sensors that contribute
to the half terabyte of
data generated on a plane,
we will find that some of it comes from
accelerometers that measure turbulence.
There are also sensors built into
the engines for temperature, pressure,
many other measurable factors
to detect engine malfunctions.
Constant real-time analysis of all
the data collected provides help
monitoring and
problem detection at 40,000 feet.
That's approximately 12,000
meters above ground.
We call this type of
analytical processing in-situ.
Previously, in traditional relational
database management systems,
data was often moved to
computational space for processing.
In Big Data space In-Situ
means bringing the computation
to where data is located or,
in this case, generated.
A key feature of these types
of real-time notifications is
that they enable real-time actions.
However, using such a capability
would require you to approach your
application and your work differently.
If you are using an activity tracker, you
should probably come up with a strategy
for how you will incorporate the usage of
these useful gadgets into your lifestyle.
Just like that, if you're planning to
incorporate Big Data driven insights into
your organization, you need to define
a new strategy, and a new way of working.
Most Big Data centric businesses have
updated their culture to be more real-time
action oriented, refining real-time
processes to handle anything from customer
relations and fraud detection,
to system monitoring and control.
In addition, such volumes of real-time
data and analytical operations that need
to take place requires an increased
use of scalable computing systems,
which need to be a part of the planning
for an organizational Big Data strategy.
They see affects of such
changes also in SCADA system.
SCADA stands for Supervisory Control and
Data Acquisition.
SCADA is a type of industrial control
system for remote monitoring and
control of industrial processes
that exists in the physical world,
potentially including multiple sites,
many types of sensors.
In addition to monitoring and control,
SCADA system can be used to define
actions for reduced waste and improved
efficiency in industrial processes,
including those of manufacturing and
power generation, public or
private infrastructure processes,
including water treatment, oil, and
gas pipelines, and
electrical power transmission, and
facility processes including buildings,
airports, ships, and space stations.
They can even be used in smart
building applications to monitor and
control heating, ventilation,
air conditioning systems like HVAC,
access, and energy consumption.
Again, the management of these processes
once the trends, patterns, and
anomalies are identified in real-time
needs to be decided in the Big Data case.
As a summary, as the largest and fastest
type of Big Data, machine generated
data can uniquely enable real-time
actions in many systems and processes.
However, a culture shift is needed for
its computing and real-time action.